---
layout: post
title: Josh Pyke - Interview
created: 1199985196
---
<p><b>You started playing and writing music from a young age (12 - 14), why so young? What motivated you to do it? </b><br />Music wasn&#39;t something I was always into, some friends started a band in High school and I wasn&#39;t keen but my Mum encouraged me, saying that if I didn&#39;t do it I might regret it and I could always quit, and that was it from then on.<br /><br /><b>What would be the motivations for starting a band at Primary school? </b><br />The reasons would be different at that age, but the core was the same, it made us feel good and we enjoyed it. For the first time in my life I felt like I was good at something without trying too hard<br /><br /><b>What are your songs about? Themes, ideals, concepts? </b><br />Whatever is happening in my life, general life experiences expressed in a more interesting way. Sometimes books I&#39;m reading, picking up on imagery and metaphors within them and interpreting them in my own way.<br /><br /><b>What are you reading at the moment? </b><br />I&#39;m trying to plough through a Fatal shore by Robert Hughes, which is a History of Australia, it&#39;s really long and I just keep dipping into it, jumping in and out. I find History really inspiring, I get a lot of my imagery and metaphor from History books, more than any other places. I was reading a lot of books about 18th Century whaling earlier in the year and that&#39;s informed a few of the new songs.<br /><br /><b>A grant helped your career up a few notches, are grants essential things for some Australian musicians to get ahead? Should the process be easier? </b><br />I recorded a few demos as a solo artist and applied for a $2000 grant, I was successful and it allowed me to put out an EP, it really helped get my music out and push my career along, actually having a physical product. It was a very easy process, just write down your ideas and a business plan and send it in. I&#39;ve been very lucky with grants (I got another one to record my first album) and they&#39;re very important for musicians here, usually most are working in several jobs to buy instruments. I can&#39;t complain about the existing systems as I&#39;ve benefit greatly from it, but there could always be more, some have had bad experiences, but I never have.<br /><br /><b>What happened to the rest of &#39;An Empty Flight &#39;/ &#39;Night Hour&#39;</b><br />&#39;Night hour&#39; was my early solo name, &#39;An empty flight&#39; was the band, we&#39;re all good friends the rest of the band just didn&#39;t pursue music and went into studying or pursuing jobs.<br /><br /><b>Do you have a regular backing band now? Do you prefer solo or band shows? </b><br />I do both, but generally I take the backing band now for festivals and large gigs.<br /><br /><b>You&#39;re taking part in Big Day out; who are you looking forward to seeing? </b><br />Arcade Fire is one of my favourite bands and I get to see them six times in a row.</p><br /><p>Published in Arcady</p>
