---
layout: post
title: Agile YOW! Night Melbourne - Dave Thomas - Sept 2013
created: 1378897876
---
<p>There seem to be more events not running free catering, is this due to a lack of sponsors or a change to methodology? A thought to ponder on&hellip;</p><p>This was what Dave called an &quot;unplugged event&quot; that contained some home truths from teams and businesses, so with respect for Dave, I will leave them out. I like his rawness. What follows is basically a list of tips I collected throughout the presentation:</p><ul><li>How to convince a business to go agile without implying it just means cheaper and faster.&nbsp;</li><li>With many large product companies agile is something they&#39;re trying, not a way of life. It&#39;s hard on leaders and hard to sustain.</li><li>Identify who can say yes and no to requirements and who can make timely decisions that may be wrong.&nbsp;</li><li>Respect remote teams, treat them as part of yours and get to know them.</li><li>Have specialists, but not people who think they are special and ruin a group dynamic.&nbsp;</li><li>Technical ladders are needed to allow due progression of tech folks without losing them to management.&nbsp;</li><li>Encourage staff to come to events and learn.&nbsp;</li><li>Have a product culture. Continuous improvement instead of quickly out the door.&nbsp;</li><li>Are they up for a true agile, continual integration culture,&nbsp; it&#39;s not just putting teams in scrum.&nbsp;</li><li>Put everything in the backlog to feed all other systems.&nbsp;</li><li>Let product owners worry about big picture and everyone else worry about their areas.&nbsp;</li><li>If there are no acceptance criteria, tear up the story card. How can you measure it?&nbsp;</li><li>Envision your projects fully before commencing them.</li><li>Reduce the fear of developers giving estimates, but story points will scare people as not being formal enough.&nbsp;</li><li>Try <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planning_poker" target="_blank">planning poker</a>/wide&nbsp; band Delphi.&nbsp;</li><li><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">Try &quot;Extreme design&quot;&nbsp;</span></li><li>Refactoring is nigh on impossible in larger projects,&nbsp; it&#39;s basically rewriting.&nbsp;</li><li>Dave doesn&#39;t like dependencies and frameworks. Object oriented programming Introduces complexity.</li><li>Feeds can be better and easier than apis. Learn about queries.</li><li>Scripting can help getting things done quicker.&nbsp;</li><li>Simple loose coupling between components.&nbsp;</li><li>It&#39;s ok to use and try different tools and languages.&nbsp;</li><li>Think outside the box.</li></ul><p>Phew, find out more about<a href="http://www.davethomas.net/" target="_blank"> Dave Thomas here</a>.</p>
