---
layout: post
title: Degrowth 2014 - What?! An introduction
created: 1410041423
---
<p>Despite attending the conference, not everyone will fully understand what &lsquo;Degrowth&rsquo; is, or the multitude of related terms that will be mentioned during the conference. Thankfully the first session on the schedule is ideally suited for getting your knowledge up to scratch.</p><p>Judging by audience responses to the question &ldquo;What is Degrowth?&rdquo; there isn&rsquo;t a concrete definition yet, but one is needed to make the term more understandable to the wider world. Currently &lsquo;Degrowth&rsquo; is more of an intersection of several concepts, we need to be clearer with our vocabulary to emphasise &lsquo;different&rsquo;, not &lsquo;less&rsquo;.</p><p>[[{"type":"media","view_mode":"media_large","fid":"152","attributes":{"class":"media-image","height":"100px","width":"100px"}}]]</p><p>&lsquo;Degrowth&rsquo; was first mentioned as a term by <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andr%C3%A9_Gorz">Gorz</a> and later by <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nicholas_Georgescu-Roegen">Roegen</a> and <a href="http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jacques_Grinevald">Grinevald</a> in the 1970s</p><p>Degrowth lost some interest in 80s and 90s due to the prevailing neo-liberal thoughts of the era. It re-entered the public&rsquo;s interest in the 00s especially around Europe and Latin America in some of the more traditionally activist countries and those worst hit by the Global Financial crisis.</p><p>Leipzig is 4th international conference on Degrowth, and now the term is being mentioned in mainstream media, academic courses and articles.</p><p>Let&rsquo;s break apart the vocabulary apart a little&hellip;</p><p>[[{"type":"media","view_mode":"media_large","fid":"153","attributes":{"class":"media-image","height":"100px","width":"100px"}}]]</p><p><strong>The Limits of Growth</strong></p><ul><li><em>Growth is uneconomic</em> : Costs are increasing faster than wealth as is inequality and the distribution of wealth.</li><li><em>Growth is unjust</em>: Commodification of the world and services, unequal access to resources, it is subsidised by unpaid and low cost labour and does not increase happiness.</li><li><em>Growth is Ecologically unsustainable</em>: There is correlation between GDP and Co2 emissions, dematerialisation of economies is not happening and technology cannot solve all our problems.</li><li><em>Growth is coming to an end</em>: There are diminishing marginal returns, an exhaustion of technological innovations, limits between demand and supply, limited natural resources and increasing debt in nations and institutions.</li></ul><p><strong>Degrowth as Autonomy</strong></p><p>This has different meanings with different writers. In summary it means that limitations should be a choice and not an external imperative or pressure, there is an emphasis on collective self-limitations.</p><p><strong>Degrowth as Repoliticisation</strong></p><p>Degrowth has come to be a word used by politics to give backing and consensus to sustainable development, which is not always a good thing. It has also lead to the politicising and debunking of science, i.e. climate change.</p><p><strong>Degrowth and Capitalism</strong></p><p>Growth is an imperative for capitalism, for technical, economic and socio-political reasons. Frequently capitalists will say that there will be a trickle down to everyone eventually if we continue to grow. Degrowth tries to imagine a non-capitalist society.</p><p><strong>Proposals for a Degrowth Transition</strong></p><ul><li><em>Grassroots economies</em></li><li><em>Welfare institutions without growth</em>: Job guarantees, basic and ceiling income, work-sharing.</li><li><em>Money and credit institutions</em>: Community and alternative currencies, public money, debt audits of spending.</li><li><em>The politics of such a transition</em>: Uncivil and civil practises, a slow leak into parliamentary politics, taking part in social movements.</li><li><em><a href="https://www.google.com/search?q=nowtopia&amp;ie=utf-8&amp;oe=utf-8&amp;aq=t&amp;gws_rd=ssl">Nowtopias</a></em> - Transition towns, Collaborative consumption, share schemes etc.</li></ul><p><strong>Future research proposals</strong></p><ul><li>The impossibility of dematerialisation</li><li>Entry of developed economies into systemic stagnation</li><li>Abandonment of growth will revive politics and democracy (no proof, but we think/hope!)</li></ul>
