---
layout: post
title: Yes, I'm leaving Australia
created: 1397775035
---
<p class="p1"><strong><span class="s1">It&rsquo;s official, after 7 years in Melbourne I&rsquo;m leaving.</span></strong><p class="p1"><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">My Wife, myself and our 17 year old Cat are off to Leipzig, Germany in the first week of July.&nbsp;</span><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">It&rsquo;s been a great few years but for various push and pull reasons, it feels like time to move on and explore new ventures and avenues. Some of these include&hellip;</span><p class="p1"><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">I am fully aware that I have been living in Australia during one of it&rsquo;s more progressive periods, whatever our opinions of the last Labour government they had slightly better (which is sad itself) ethics than the Liberal governments they were sandwiched between. I guess the realisation that politically and generally (outside of the bubbles I exist in) Australia is a very conservative country, perhaps more conservative than the one I left behind. Government reflects it&rsquo;s population and vice versa and I am involved enough in the world around me to find that somewhat depressing. Many have said it&rsquo;s time to stay and fight, but after many years of doing that, to be honest, I feel like walking away and putting my efforts into other activities.</span><p class="p1"><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">On the flip side, I feel that mainland Europe (which is miss greatly) shows some green shoots. I may be wrong, I may stay a few years and feel just as frustrated, that&rsquo;s a fact of living a life that is involved in the world around you. Who knows and that remains to be seen, but it feels like the right time to try somewhere new and I have no reason not to, so why the hell not.</span><p class="p1"><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">I have also been intending to take some time off to work on several projects that I am quite keen about, so have been saving for a while to take some time off and work on them, throwing yourself into a new environment seems a good way to finally knuckle down to those. These projects involve:</span><ul><li class="p1"><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">One work of non-fiction, based upon my &lsquo;<a href="http://theleanagilenonprofit.com" target="_blank">Lean and Agile non-profit</a>&rsquo; project, I&rsquo;m still a little unsure about the viability and interest in this project, so spending some time on it may result in me ending the idea.</span></li><li class="p1"><span class="s1">Two works of fiction based on some ideas I have had floating around for some time.</span></li><li class="p1"><span class="s1">Editing <a href="http://www.sitepoint.com/mobile/" target="_blank">Sitepoint&#39;s Mobile channel</a>.</span></li><li class="p1"><span class="s1">Two board game ideas, one of which I am really excited about.</span></li><li class="p1"><span class="s1">Various bits of coding goodness, polishing up a few of my contributions to the communities I work with.</span></li><li class="p1"><span class="s1">Educating myself on a few new programming languages and ideas.</span></li><li class="p1"><span class="s1"><a href="/tags/lean-traveller" target="_blank">The Lean Traveller</a> - This will be a series of blog posts about our travelling as leanly and lightly as possible. Services, tips and ideas that help facilitate that lifestyle. This will start very soon!</span></li><li class="p1"><span class="s1"><a href="http://greenrenters.org/" target="_blank">Green Renters</a> phase 2 - Now we&rsquo;re leaving Melbourne we will be doing something very different and new with Green Renters. i don&rsquo;t really want to announce what that is here before exit&rsquo;s announce to the Green Renters community, but watch this space!</span></li><li class="p1"><span class="s1">Cate also has a bunch of her own awesome ideas, keep an eye on <a href="http://consumingcate.blogspot.com.au/" target="_blank">her blog</a>.</span></li></ul><p class="p2"><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">I also intend to continue working with a few Australian organisations consulting on tech projects, as is the way of the world these days, it matters less and less where you actually are in the World.</span><p class="p2"><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">We&rsquo;ve both had a great time in the various amounts of years we&rsquo;ve spent in Melbourne and have been involved with many communities, cliques, tribes, groups, sub-cultures and projects. We feel we have been in Melbourne in one of it&rsquo;s best periods in history, that we have contributed a small amount to that and have enjoyed meeting so many of you.</span><p class="p2"><strong><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">We hope you will come and celebrate with us and are throwing a party, you are all invited, <a href="http://www.eventbrite.com.au/e/cate-chris-leaving-shindig-tickets-11132518663" target="_blank">RSVP here.</a></span></strong><p class="p2"><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">We&rsquo;ll be back for visits and look forward to catching up with you in our remaining time here, somewhere else in the World or online.</span>
