---
layout: post
title: Product Anonymous Feb 2014 - API management
created: 1392939764
---
<p class="p1"><span class="s1">This was a great <a href="http://productanonymous.com/" target="_blank">Product Anonymous</a> session with <a href="http://au.linkedin.com/pub/jason-cormier/15/131/744" target="_blank">Jason Corimor</a> of <a href="http://www.mashery.com/" target="_blank">Mashery</a> that covered the business and commercialisation of using APIs, I intend to expand on a few of these topics in the future, so will touch upon them here.</span></p><p class="p2"><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">Jason likens discussing APIs with businesses to discussing websites a decades ago, people know what they are, kind of what they&rsquo;re for and think they want it, but aren&rsquo;t 100% sure why. Currently discussions around APIs are had with IT departments, when really they should start to be had with business and product owners, thus getting a different perspective and leading to new opportunities.</span></p><p class="p2"><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">Mashery has an API management product that sits on top of your web services and helps provide detailed management and analytics for your API and it&rsquo;s clients / users. As is typical with commercial APIs, this is handled through a key that sets your level of access.</span></p><p class="p2"><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">Throughout the session we discussed various aspects of API implementation and the possible outcomes of opening up your data to external sources, these include.</span></p><ul><li class="p1"><span class="s1">Gives you the potential to get feedback on your business and processes from external eyes.</span></li><li class="p1"><span class="s1">How to protect against being too open and revealing too much.</span></li><li class="p1"><span class="s1">How to handle changes in your API policies and plans, see Twitter (badly handled) and Google (typically well handled). This also relates to handling depreciation and redundancy of api functions.</span></li><li class="p1"><span class="s1">By utilising standards with APIs no explanation is needed for custom functions, a development team can just take the data source and create with it.</span></li><li class="p1"><span class="s1">How to prevent scraping, this is often caused by not making it easy in the first place.</span></li><li class="p1"><span class="s1">Don&#39;t rely on an API. Be clear on what the arrangement is with a supplier/client. Think of it like a product, not a solution.</span></li></ul><p class="p2"><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">We also had a quick discussion on Hackathons, this is a topic I want to explore much more in the future, but very briefly.</span></p><ul><li class="p1"><span class="s1">The resulting products are not always the outcome, it&#39;s about revealing things and the experience people get from the focus for learning or solving problems.&nbsp;</span></li><li class="p1"><span class="s1">Don&#39;t just have to be digital.&nbsp;</span></li></ul>
