---
layout: post
title: My Dog is More Connected Than Your Dog
date: 2016-03-03 18:00:00.000000000 +01:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Connected Devices
  - Wear
tags:
  - Arduino
  - Cleverpet
  - featured
  - Fitbark
  - Fitbit
  - ipad apps
  - Petbot
  - Pettech
  - Voyce
  - wearable
  - wearable devices
  - Whistle
  - Whistle Activity Monitor
meta:
  _thumbnail_id: '136135527266119650'
  _edit_last: '549'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
excerpt: There's a growing market for people that love tech and pets
---
Does your love of tech extend to the pets in your life? When you look
into the pettech world, there's a bewildering plethora of mobile apps to
aid our furry friends from [adopting a
dog](https://itunes.apple.com/US/app/id875026451?mt=8),[deciding on a
pet nam](https://itunes.apple.com/DE/app/id327583274?mt=8)e,
administering [first
aid](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cube.arc.pfa) and choosing
a [pet-friendly
holiday](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/bringfido-pet-friendly-hotels/id682820712?mt=8)
location - and we haven't even gotten into the entire range of
interactive gadgets and accessories. 

Pets are big business—the [American Pet Products
Association](http://www.americanpetproducts.org/press_industrytrends.asp)
estimates that consumers spent nearly \$61 billion on their pets in
2015.  According to
[IDTechEx,](http://www.idtechex.com/research/reports/wearable-technology-for-animals-2015-2025-technologies-markets-forecasts-000391.asp) 
ten years from now the wearable tech market for pets is expected to
reach \$2.6 billion. 

If you have the cash, here's a critical look at some of the more
innovative tools to entertain and support your four-legged family
members.

CleverPet 
----------

![](rw-import/MTM1Nzg2MDM2NjUwMzIyNTYz.png)

The CleverPet 

With inspiration straight from the work of [Ivan
Pavlov](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classical_conditioning), the
[CleverPet](http://getcleverpet.com/)uses cutting-edge algorithms based
on behavioural science to reward your dog when she learns something
new. A busy dog is a happy dog. Your dog is less likely to be distraught
or destructive while you’re out if they have something productive to do,
and playing games is a great way to keep them occupied.

The device has three sensitive touch pads designed for dog noses and
paws, which light up interactively. Your pet will win food for touching
the pads on the device with the difficulty escalating over time. You can
also see how they are doing in real time via the corresponding app. You
can even pre-record verbal commands for training work.

CleverPet is connectable to other smart device and Arduino-compatible. A
tech savvy owner can also write their own custom code via the available
RESTful API.

PetBot
------

![](rw-import/MTM2MDg4MDQxMzAyMzIzMTcw.png)

Look deep into my dispenser...

The [PetBot](http://www.petbot.co/) also takes a page from Pavlov's
book, a focused towards the welfare of the owner than the pet, although
it may be more focused on the owner's well-being. Think of it as a
reward-dispensing baby monitor. It allows the owner to see, speak and
listen to their pet through their smartphone. When the pet cuddles up to
the camera, PetBot automatically starts recording a ten-second video or
selfie image and dispenses a treat or plays a pre-recorded sound as a
reward. The danger here? Finding out your pet thinks you're more boring
than you realize.

Whistle, FitBark and Wonderwoof wearables 
------------------------------------------

![](rw-import/MTM2MDg5NzEyMzEzMDM2Nzcw.jpg)\

Wonderwoof's wearable activity tracker

 Of all wearables for dogs, three similar devices are getting the bulk
of the
attention: [Whistle](https://readwrite.com/2013/11/12/whistle-tracker-dog),
[FitBark](http://www.fitbark.com/)and
[Wonderwoof](https://www.wonderwoof.com/). They all feature a small
device that clips onto your dog's collar and monitors your dog's resting
and activity levels. These are then compared to a pre-calculated range
based on their breed, age and weight. Where these devices differ is in
their corresponding apps. Whistle, for example, enables owners to keep
track of medications as well as a food log. The app can also be shared
by multiple family members. Whistle also retails a GPS tracker, although
it would be nice to see this integrated into the wearable rather than as
separate product in the
future. [Whistle](http://www.whistle.com/activity-monitor/) is also the
first consumer device to tap into Sigfox’s low-power IoT network. By
comparison, [FitBark](http://www.fitbark.com/) can be linked to an
owner's Fitbit and has the option of a separate wifi base accessory - at
a cost of \$80 - for monitoring multiple dogs.
The [Wonderwoof](https://www.wonderwoof.com/)app also enables the owner
to track the location of "doggy friends" while you're out walking. Don't
worry, cats - a Wondermeow is in the works this year. 

Voyce
-----

![](rw-import/MTM2MTU5NzQzMzY1MzU2MzQ1.jpg)\

Fetching his first wearable: Voyce

[Voyce](http://voyce.com/) is a health-focused wearable collar for dogs
that does everything some of th above activity wearables do, but also
measures sunlight exposure as well as heart and respiratory rates.
Designed by a team of veterinarians, Voyce's strength is that the health
information can be made available to your dog's veterinarian. Voyce is
more than double the cost of other health monitoring devices and a
membership plan - around \$100 per year - is required to have access to
the corresponding online portal. 

![](rw-import/MTM2OTY4NTA2Mzc2NzI2MTEx.png)

Voyce's accompanying pet record

An owner can activate the "caregiver" option, giving their pet’s vet
access to all of the Voyce monitor’s data. A separate Voyce Pro program
enables veterinarians to actively monitor their patients.

The collar comes in different sizes, but it may prove too uncomfortable
for many dogs. Some reviews complained that the collar's bulky looks got
them some evil looks - owners were accused of having their pet wear a
shock collar. But this kind of detailed monitoring wearable will likely
become a precedent for future developers, albeit hopefully in a more
ergonomic collar. 

Ipad Games ....for Cats? (And Lonely Penguins....)
--------------------------------------------------

![](rw-import/MTM2MTU3OTM1NDUyNTkyMDgz.jpg)

Have you ever found your cat watching television? Their entertainment
needn't be usurped by your own, thanks to [Ipad Games for
Cats](http://www.ipadgameforcats.com/). I had a chat with game designer
TJ Fuller, part of the duo that created [Game for
Cats](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.littlehiccup.GameForCats)
app. The idea came from seeing videos of cats playing with iPads on
YouTube, but the impetus was a lengthy failed attempt at making
children's games. They decided to see what they could make in two weeks
and the resulting game - where cats can play with mice, lasers and
butterflies - was a hit. Since then, two other games have featured in
the kitty reportoire, [Paint for
Cats](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/paint-for-cats/id427702410?mt=8)and
[Catzilla](https://itunes.apple.com/app/catzilla/id641891200?mt=8).

The experiences in creating games for cats highlight some of the
challenges for developers in working with animals. With the first beta
version, the developers knew they were at a loss for market research -
neither had a cat or even an Ipad. Buying an iPad was easy, and they
took it to the local pet shelter to test the game.

"The women at the shelter didn’t know what the iPad was but the cats
loved it immediately," says Fuller. "It became really popular right
away."  

The game also proved popular at the aquarium in Long Beach, California -
particularly with the penguins that experienced increased sex drives
after playing the game. 

There was also some unintended consequences in the first game, which
began with free levels and extended to paid levels. Users complained
that money was being taken from their accounts without their consent. It
turned out that the cats were pressing their paw on the "buy now"
button. After that, they introduced a failsafe where a buyer needed a
credit card and a human hand to make a payment.

Fuller says the biggest challenge in making games for cats is that their
capacity for engagement differs significantly to humans. Cat owners
wanted a more advanced game for their cats. But after going all-out with
their third
game, [Catzilla](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/catzilla/id641891200?mt=8),
they found that the game appealed to owners more than cats. As one
reviewer wrote:

> *"Whereas our kitties will sit, purring loudly in anticipation,
> staring at a blank iPad WAITING for me to turn on the Painting game,
> they completely ignored this game visually and got very scared of the
> siren sounds".*

This led to lower-than-expected sales despite the first two apps selling
consistently for several years. Fuller notes that testing is the key in
creating product for pets. He explained a recent frustrating situation
where they were working on another game for months, only to find out
during beta testing that cats just would not play it. 

Sure, it's easy for the petless out there to smirk at both the tech
sector's and pet owners' desires for pettech. But most owners consider
their pets a member of the family and valu their well-being. However,
there are concerns that the market could easily become overly saturated
with products which are targeted at behavioural modification through
"[static
correction](http://www.amazon.com/Motorola-SCOUTTRAINER25-Collar-Remote-Training/dp/B00SFW0LX6)" and
other forms of control, which can seem cruel and archaic - and at odds
with the benefits of the majority of pet wearables and apps. But
hopefully, tails will keep wagging.
