---
layout: post
title: Wearable innovation is coming to first responder technology
date: 2016-11-12 12:00:16.000000000 +01:00
type: post
published: true
status: publish
categories:
  - Cate
  - Connected Devices
  - Industrial
tags:
  - emergency services
  - industrial
  - LED
  - safety
  - safety wearables
  - smart clothing
  - smart glasses
  - wearable tech
  - wearables
meta:
  _edit_last: '550'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  _wpuf_form_id: ''
  _disabel_wpdevart_facebook_comment: enable
  _yoast_wpseo_primary_category: '7088'
  _yoast_wpseo_content_score: '30'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskeywords: "[]"
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-genre: a:1:{i:0;s:76:"<MultipleSelectOptions {} for select
    name='yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-genre[]'>";}
  boomtrain_blacklist: '0'
  _boomtrain_blacklist: field_581cd80e9d313
  _advads_ad_settings: a:2:{s:11:"disable_ads";i:0;s:19:"disable_the_content";i:0;}
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw_text_input: first responder
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw: first responder
  _yoast_wpseo_title: Wearable innovation is coming to first responder technology
  _yoast_wpseo_metadesc: A new accelerator has brought forth 10 new startups to to
    create new wearable technologies for a first responder to let them operate more
    safely.
  _thumbnail_id: '9177'
  _yoast_wpseo_linkdex: '74'
  instant_articles_submission_id: '103531876797423'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
---
The Department of Homeland Security Science and Technology Directorate
 has announced the selection of 10 start-up companies to be part of
[EMERGE 2016: Wearable
Technology](https://www.dhs.gov/science-and-technology/accelerator), an
accelerator program designed to bring start-ups, accelerators, and other
strategic partners together in a common research and development effort.
The program operates in conjunction in conjunction
with [TechNexus](http://technexus.com/) and its partner
[CIT](http://www.cit.org/).

First responders such as police, fire and emergency services  have a
tremendous need for devices such as body-worn electronics, advanced
sensors, and integrated voice and data communications embedded within
their gear. Hands-free wearables can integrate multiple technologies and
minimize additional equipment while maximizing effective response
efforts.

***See also:** [U.S. research into smart shirts for emergency
responder](http://U.S.%20backs%20research%20into%20smart%20shirts%20for%20emergency%20responders)*

“This is an important step for science and technology to tap into the
innovation ecosystem,” said DHS Under Secretary for Science and
Technology Dr. Reginald Brothers. “We need to find technologies for
first responders that can be integrated directly into their existing
gear. The entrepreneurial world is on the leading edge of those
inventive solutions.”

As part of the program, the 10 start-ups will have access to first
responder feedback, industry partners and investors, and business
development educational resources from mentors around the business
world. The access and resources available will assist in early market
validation efforts, test and evaluation opportunities, and the
establishment of a path to introduce their technologies to a variety of
markets, including government sector partners.

The selected start-ups include:

**[HAAS Alert](http://www.haasalert.com/) **

![haasalert](rw-import/HAASAlert.jpg){.alignnone
.size-full .wp-image-9176 width="800" height="450"}

HAAS alert is a connected and autonomous V2V mobile platform that
provides preemptive warning to drivers, motorcyclists and
bicyclists when emergency vehicles are approaching. This is through a
mobile vehicle-to-vehicle communication platform that uses acoustic
sensors to pick up environmental and situational noise, and location
data to connect people, vehicles, and things in cities, streamlining the
disaster and emergency notification process to keep communities safe.

**[Augmate](http://www.augmate.com/):**

![new\_feature\_battery](rw-import/new_feature_battery.png){.wp-image-9145
.aligncenter width="512" height="445"}

Augmate have developed a provisioning and management platform for
wearable devices that helps IT departments track users and their
devices, collect sensor data, communicate with workers, and control
approved applications and situational connectivity. The platform enables
a workplace to monitor each device's battery status and last location by
implementing locational beacon technology. It's currently used with good
success in industries such as manufacturing and mining and would have a
important contribution to emergency services.

[**Command Wear**](http://www.commandwear.com/)

![10405513\_508180769284461\_1660634376190722737\_n](rw-import/10405513_508180769284461_1660634376190722737_n.jpg){.wp-image-9181
.aligncenter width="391" height="607"}

Command Wear have created a software platform that connected with first
responders existing smartphones, smart watches and tablets to provide 
personnel tracking, two-way text communication and video sharing to
speed response, improve situational awareness and keep responders
safe. Geo-fencing alerts personnel that they’re entering hazard zones or
moving outside an assigned area. Teams can also review everything that
happens during a for later analysis or investigation after the event.

[**Lumenus**](http://www.lumenus.com/)

![luminus-main](rw-import/luminus-main.jpg){.alignnone
.size-full .wp-image-9175 width="970" height="560"}

Lumenus is a smart clothing company, creating smart clothing that uses
LED lighting and connectivity to improve visibility of consumers and
industrial workers. The company ran a Kickstarter campaign last year
for two jackets, a vest and a backpack that enable wearers to be seen
more easily at night  with a corresponding app  to include a GPS
component to promote cyclist safety, which includes cycle-friendly
directions and the ability to modify their routes to avoid hazardous
locations.

**[ Six15 Technologies](http://www.six-15.com/)**

![1780156\_781335121879856\_76619775\_o](rw-import/1780156_781335121879856_76619775_o-1024x683.jpg){.wp-image-9183
.aligncenter width="650" height="434"}

Six15 Technologies is the at the forefront of wearable solutions for
Public Safety, Security, and First Responders, creating rugged,
high-resolution head mounted displays (HMD) and OEM optoelectronic
modules including custom computing and display solutions. Their AR
Glasses Platform is also used to good affect in industries such as
mining and manufacturing.

**[Vault RMS](https://www.vaultexposuretracker.com/) **

![screen-shot-2016-10-27-at-18-15-35](rw-import/Screen-Shot-2016-10-27-at-18.15.35.jpg){.size-large
.wp-image-9178 .aligncenter width="558" height="383"}

A [2015
study](http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/firefighters/ffcancerstudy.html) by the
National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health found that
firefighters have up to 2.3x the rate of cancer compared to the average
US worker. In response Vault RMS have developed a software platform that
leverages biometric and situational data from wearable devices and other
inputs to build a long-term health profile of workers exposed to
health-compromising environments. For example, Vault tracks workers
exposure to fire and carcinogenic materials and provides the data to
firefighters when they need health documentation. This drives
improvements in health, safety, and overall worker productivity.

The EMERGE program will conclude with opportunities to explore pilot and
path-to-market opportunities with the first responder, corporate, and
investor communities later this year. It'll be a great chance for many
to see the way wearables are used to great effect by first responders,
at times with life saving impact.
